---
title: Tip 12 - Learn How Businesses Really Work
date: 2013-02-04 07:54 -07:00
tags:
---

By far, Tip 12: Learning how businesses really work, makes me the most
uncomfortable and so I think it’d be the hardest for me to implement. For the
past five years, I’ve focused on being a Computer Scientist and programmer.
It’s a field that has rules to follow and predictable results. There’s very
little uncertainty and if you have a solution to a problem, it can be proven
with clear logic. Business on the other hand, seems like a magical box. I don’t
have any experience in it, but I’ve come to the conclusion that a successful
business requires a lot of luck. The self imposed feeling that I can’t easily
control the outcome of the business makes me want to avoid it completely, and
of course it’s difficult to “learn how a businesses really work” when I’m
fighting with my own feelings about it.

The first thing I need to do to implement this tip is to stop being afraid.
While writing this post, I realize that it’s silly for me to be afraid of
something I don’t understand. I need get over it; there’s nothing for me to
fear. Other people understand the businesses they’re in and supporting, and so
I should be able to understand it too. While I’m in gSchool, I don’t have a
business to support, but I can at least try to understand the basics and the
language so that when I do begin working, I won’t be completely lost. After I
understand some general business concepts, I can look at current businesses
that are solving solutions or products that interest me and see how those
business have succeeded or failed.

