---
title: Why I Applied to gSchool
date: 2013-06-06 22:16 -06:00
tags:
---

During college, whenever I mentioned to people that I was a Computer Science major, there were always two responses I'd hear: "Oh wow, you must be really smart" and "You'll never have to worry about finding a job." Then, as I neared graduation, I started applying for jobs. I have to say, people were wrong.

I wasn't as unfortunate as some people, since I was able to get a job about a 1.5 months after graduating, but getting that first job took a lot more effort than you might think. Why was it so difficult though? Part of the problem was that I had very little practical programming experience. I had the theoretical background that would allow me to pick up all sorts of languages pretty quickly, but I never *really* learned about any one in particular. Because of that, I had trouble confidently selling myself. I've never been good at BSing, and I'm even worse on paper. I tend to undersell myself and of course that doesn't impress anyone.

I accepted my first job offer in a heartbeat... and then I regretted it for a long long time. What was wrong with this job? Well for starters, I wasn't doing web development which is what I have always been interested in. The company was poorly managed. The CEO was always making promises to the client that the developers struggled to keep. The framework we were using was the jankiest piece of crap I've ever seen. No one fully understood how it worked, which is **scary** when it was supposed to be our product. There was little to no testing involved so development was extremely slow. We were often working long nights and entire weekends for demo days. I hated my code because I knew it was poorly structure, but the pressure to "just make it work" always won. Actually, I knew my code was bad, but I didn't know how to fix it. There was always so much to do that I never felt like I had the time or luxury to refactor or learn how to refactor. It was what I would now consider to be unprofessional work. All of this stress was burning me out. I lost the passion for programming. I almost never opened my laptop when I was home except to play video games. Otherwise I was working out, watching tv, or at the rock climbing gym. I simply did not want to code.

During this time, I was dating a guy who was beginning his career as a Ruby on Rails developer. As a former apprentice of 8th Light, he has developed a passion for writing beautiful, and professional code and would tell me about it. I decided I wanted to write good code and be able to take some pride in it. I attempted to implement TDD as a practice at my job, but that stopped pretty quickly. There was just too much pressure to ship code and the framework was incredibly difficult to mock and stub.
