---
title: Week 20
date: 2013-06-14 14:25 -06:00
tags:
---

###Service Project
I MISSED BEING IN A GROUP!!! I MISSED PAIRING!!! I'm so happy to be working with
people.

I've been imagining services to be the same as interacting with REST apis, and I'm
pretty sure that is the correct general understanding so it's not crazy. The
most difficult part is knowing how to break the app. It's really hard building
an application from scratch and going straight for a service oriented approach.
We don't know what we need to optimize and we're not completely sure about how
the different parts will interact. It's kind of scary.

###Job Hunt
It's been okay. I have a list, but haven't contacted or applied to most of the
companies. Part of that is because I have an interview with one of my top
choices, and I'm kind of waiting to see where that goes before I put myself out
on the market even more. It's probably not a good approach... now that I'm
thinking about it, I think I'll be applying to more jobs at the end of today.

I don't really have any next steps, besides continue to look for companies that
interest me and apply to those. I still want to work for a consultancy since
I think that's where I can get the most breadth of experience, and I hope that
I'll also be able to get experience with working with clients. It's an
experience that I'm severely lacking in, and I think being able to deal with
clients will help with my communication, people and project management skills in the
future.

I've learned how to show my passion for programming. Before gSchool, I knew
I was passionate about programming, but I didn't know how to talk about it or
how to show it. I was too shy to put my code on github and was afraid about not
knowing. After talking to people from Quick Left, Hashrocket, thoughtbot, etc.
I've learned that it's okay that I don't know everything and that I'm not the
best, but I need to put myself out there more, talk about my interests a lot
more, and being willing to share my code and projects to prove that I really
love programming.
