---
title: Week ... 15?
date: 2013-05-10 11:05 -06:00
tags:
---

###FeedEngine - RunLine

For FeedEngine, my team is building an application that connects various running
tracking applications. Users can create group runs and invite their friends on
the run. Then, when they do run, regardless of what type of running tracker they
use, such as fitbit, or daily mile, we will show group run information. Users
can also get live updated information about the runs their friends go on.

I'm really excited about this project since I think it's a product that people
could use. There are a lot of different running applications available and they
all do slightly different things to fit the needs of their users. I like that we
can bring all these applications together to create a running community that
doesn't force people to use a particular application.

###Teamwork

The team I'm on is composed of three guys and one girl, me. This team is very
much a power team in the sense that we're very dedicated, reliable, able to
discuss and solve problems at a higher level, and cooperative. At the same time
we have very different personalities so the project could also go horribly wrong
if we don't communciate well. We've all agreed to do group code reviews when
submitting pull requests and we regularly check in on each other to see what the
other members are doing.

Another awesome about working with my current team is that I can actually focus
on the frontend this time. I'm not going to disconnect myself completely from
the backend of course, but I trust my other team members to be able to do the
work well and at a good pace. I just hope I can do the same on the frontend.

###Jobs

After last week's retrospective, I've thought a bit more about what I'm looking
for in a job, so in order of priority:

  1. Pairing - at the LEAST 70% of time.. preferably 100% :)
  2. Agiel development process
  3. Regularly changing teams - I can get project ADD so to be able to work on
     different teams and projects with different people helps with staying
     interested
  4. Ability to work on both frontend and backend
  5. 20% project time
  6. Ability to work remotely

Company culture is probably one of the most important things for me, but
I didn't list it since I'm still not completely sure about what I'm looking for.
It's easy for me to say what I don't want however:

  * No communication
  * waterfall development
  * Unrealistic expectations - my last company always promised way more than
     they should have and this really stressed out the developers and put us in
     positions where we made quick and dirty solutions that we would completely
     regret later.

How will I know when I've found the company that is the right fit? I don't know.
I still need to think about it.


